This file is meant to contain a little documentation about the GdlDock
and related widgets.  It's incomplete and probably a bit out of date.

For the original C version -
Please send comments to the devtools list (gnome-devtools@gnome.org)
and report bugs to bugzilla (bugzilla.gnome.org).  Also check the todo
list at the end of this document.

For the C# version - 
Please send comments to monodevelop-list@lists.ximian.com
and report bugs to bugzilla (bugzilla.ximian.com) under monodevelop.

Have fun,
Gustavo


Overview
--------

The GdlDock is a hierarchical based docking widget.  It is composed of
widgets derived from the abstract class GdlDockObject which defines
the basic interface for docking widgets on top of others.  

The toplevel entries for docks are GdlDock widgets, which in turn hold
a tree of GdlDockItem widgets.  For the toplevel docks to be able to
interact with each other (when the user drags items from one place to
another) they're all kept in a user-invisible and automatic object
called the master.  To participate in docking operations every
GdlDockObject must have the same master (the binding to the master is
done automatically).  The master also keeps track of the manual items
(mostly those created with gdl_dock_*_new functions) which are in the
dock.

Layout loading/saving service is provided by a separate object called
GdlDockLayout.  Currently it stores information in XML format, but
another backend could be easily written.  To keep the external XML
file in sync with the dock, monitor the "dirty" property of the layout
object and call gdl_dock_layout_save_to_file when this changes to
TRUE.  No other action is required (the layout_changed is monitored by
the layout object for you now).


GdlDockObject
=============

A DockObject has:

- a master, which manages all the objects in a dock ring ("master"
  property, construct only).

- a name.  If the object is manual the name can be used to recall the
  object from any other object in the ring ("name" property).

- a long, descriptive name ("long_name" property).

A DockObject can be:

- automatic or manual.  If it's automatic it means the lifecycle of
  the object is entirely managed by the dock master.  If it's manual
  in general means the user specified such object, and so it's not to
  be destroyed automatically at any time.

- frozen.  In this case any call to reduce on the object has no
  immediate effect.  When the object is later thawn, any pending
  reduce calls are made (maybe leading to the destruction of the
  object).

- attached or detached.  In general for dock items, being attached
  will mean the item has its widget->parent set.  For docks it will
  mean they belong to some dock master's ring.  In general, automatic
  objects which are detached will be destroyed (unless frozen).

- bound to a master or free.  In order to participate in dock
  operations, each dock object must be bound to a dock master (which
  is a separate, non-gui object).  In general, bindings are treated
  automatically by the object, and this is entirely true for automatic
  objects.  For manual objects, the master holds an additional
  reference and has structures to store and recall them by nick names.
  Normally, a manual object will only be destroyed when it's unbound
  from the master.

- simple or compound.  This actually depends on the subclass of the
  dock object.  The difference is made so we can put restrictions in
  how the objects are docked on top of another (e.g. you can't dock a
  compound object inside a notebook).  If you look at the whole
  docking layout as a tree, simple objects are the leaves, while all
  the interior nodes are compound.

- reduced.  This is only meaningful for compound objects.  If the
  number of contained items has decreased to one the compound type
  object is no longer necessary to hold the child.  In this case the
  child is reattached to the object's parent.  If the number of
  contained items has reached zero, the object is detached and reduce
  is called on its parent.  For toplevel docks, the object is only
  detached if it's automatic.  In any case, the future of the object
  itself depends on whether it's automatic or manual.

- requested to possibly dock another object.  Depending on the
  type's behavior, the object can accept or reject this request.  If
  it accepts it, it should fill in some additional information
  regarding how it will host the peer object.

- asked to dock another object.  Depending on the object's internal
  structure and behavior two options can be taken: to dock the object
  directly (e.g. a notebook docking another object); or to create an
  automatic compound object which will be attached in place of the
  actual object, and will host both the original object and the
  requestor (e.g. a simple item docking another simple item, which
  should create a paned/notebook).  The type of the new object will be
  decided by the original objet based on the docking position.


DETACHING: the action by which an object is unparented.  The object is
then ready to be docked in some other place.  Newly created objects
are always detached, except for toplevels (which are created attached
by default).  An automatic object which is detached gets destroyed
afterwards, since its ref count drops to zero.  Floating automatic
toplevels never reach a zero ref count when detached, since the
GtkWindow always keeps a reference to it (and the GtkWindow has a user
reference).  That's why floating automatic toplevels are destroyed
when reduced.

REDUCING: for compound objects, when the number of contained children
drops to one or zero, the container is no longer necessary.  In this
case, the object is detached, and any remaining child is reattached to
the object's former parent.  The limit for toplevels is one for
automatic objects and zero for manual (i.e. they can even be empty).
For simple (not compound) objects reducing doesn't make sense.

UNBINDING: to participate in a dock ring, every object must be bound
to a master.  The master connects to dock item signals and keeps a
list of bound toplevels.  Additionally, a reference is kept for manual
objects (this is so the user doesn't need to keep track of them, but
can perform operations like hiding and such).



GdlDock
=======

- Properties:

  "floating" (gboolean, construct-only): whether the dock is floating in
  its own window or not.

  "default_title" (gchar, read-write): title for new floating docks.
  This property is proxied to the master, which truly holds it.  

The title for the floating docks is: the user supplied title
(GdlDockObject's long_name property) if it's set, the default title
(from the master) or an automatically generated title.


- Signals:

  "layout_changed": emitted when the user changed the layout of the
  dock somehow.


TODO LIST
=========

- Functionality for the item grip: provide a11y

- Implement notebook tab reordering

- Implement dock bands for toolbars and menus.

- A dock-related thing is to build resizable toolbars (something like
  the ones Windows have, where the buttons are reflowed according to
  the space available).

- Redesign paneds so they can hold more than two items and resize all
  of them at once by using the handle (see if gimpdock does that).

- Find a way to allow the merging of menu items to the item's popup
  menu.  Also, there should be a way for the master to insert some
  menu items.

- Bonobo UI synchronizer.

- Item behavoirs: implement the ones missing and maybe think more of
  them (e.g. positions where it's possible to dock the item, etc.)

- Make a nicer dragbar for the items, with buttons for undocking,
  closing, hidding, etc. (See sodipodi, kdevelop)


